docs: add docs for dynatrace dashboard integration (#2037)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/integration/dynatrace/README.md

    ```

2. If your Secret has a different name or namespace, then download the file first and adjust the namespace and name accordingly in the 'dataSources' section of the file.

## Use Dynatrace Dashboards

You can view logs, traces, and metrics in Dynatrace dashboards:

> - To view the status of the Dynatrace integration with the Kyma Telemetry module, manually import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json).

Reviewer: Can you outline the navigation chain to import a dashboard please

Reviewer: Please also add the alert rule configuration

    ```

2. If your Secret has a different name or namespace, then download the file first and adjust the namespace and name accordingly in the 'dataSources' section of the file.

## Use Dynatrace Dashboards

You can view logs, traces, and metrics in Dynatrace dashboards:

> - To view the status of the Dynatrace integration with the Kyma Telemetry module, go to Dashboards > Import Dashboard, and manually import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json).

Reviewer 2: Not sure if we want to document Dynatrace UI here, considering this is Kyma documentation. If Dynatrace ever changes their UI path, it's very likely we won't be notified and our doc will be outdated. 
It should be sufficient to say "To view the status of the Dynatrace integration with the Kyma Telemetry module, import the file Telemetry Module Status as a Dynatrace dashboard."  

If the UI is extremely un-intuitive, I hope Dynatrace has documentation how to import a dashboard, to which we can link.

Author: The UI itself if pretty intuitive, but I added a link to the documentation just in case.

Author: Removed all the references to Dynatrace UI and replaced them with links to the official docs :)

    > [!WARNING]
    > Kyma Telemetry resources contain the following custom OpenTelemetry resource attributes:
    > - `k8s.resource.name`
    > - `k8s.resource.group`
    > - `k8s.resource.kind`
    > - `k8s.resource.version`
    > 

>     > For the dashboard to function properly, these attributes must be added to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes. To make these configuration changes, go to Settings > Metrics > OpenTelemetry metrics > Allow list: resource and scope attributes.

Reviewer 2: can we use active voice?

```suggestion
    > For the dashboard to function properly, you must add these attributes to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes. To make these configuration changes, go to Settings > Metrics > OpenTelemetry metrics > Allow list: resource and scope attributes.
```

Where do I make these configuration changes? In the Dynatrace UI? If that's the case, again I'd caution against documenting someone else's UI on click-level. Instead, we should link to their doc where they describe how to add something to the allowlist.

## Use Dynatrace Alerts

You can create Dynatrace Alerts based on certain metric events to send alerts to your system of choice. 

> 1. [Create a problem alerting profile](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/alerting-profiles#create-an-alerting-profile).

Reviewer 2: Excellent! Linking to their doc instead of documenting their UI in our docs.

> 2. Set up alert integration with your system of choice. For more information on how to set up alert integration with your system, go to the official [Dynatrace documentation](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/problem-notifications).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set up alert integration with your system of choice. For details, see [Problem notifications](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/problem-notifications).
```

> 3. Create a [metric event](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/discover-dynatrace/platform/davis-ai/anomaly-detection/set-up-a-customized-anomaly-detector/how-to-set-up/metric-events) by going to Settings > Anomaly Detection > Metric events > Add metric event. Define your metric event with a metric selector or a metric key.

Reviewer 2: Can we refrain from documenting the Dynatrace UI here?

```suggestion
3. Create a [metric event](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/discover-dynatrace/platform/davis-ai/anomaly-detection/set-up-a-customized-anomaly-detector/how-to-set-up/metric-events) and define it with a metric selector or a metric key.
```

> 4. Add a custom event filter to your alerting profile in your problem alerting profile tab by clicking on the **Add event filter** button. Here you can select a custom filter based on the Metric event title, description, or property.

Reviewer 2: Again, I hope Dynatrace is documenting how to do this and we can link to their doc.

```suggestion
4. Add a custom event filter to your alerting profile. You can select a custom filter based on the Metric event title, description, or property.
```

> 5. Verify that your alerts are working in your system.

Reviewer 2: How?

    ```

2. If your Secret has a different name or namespace, then download the file first and adjust the namespace and name accordingly in the 'dataSources' section of the file.

## Use Dynatrace Dashboards

> 1. To view metrics in Dynatrace dashboards, import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json) as a Dynatrace dashboard. For details, see [Importing Dashboards](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/dashboards-classic/dashboards/dashboard-json#import-dashboard).

Reviewer: We are talking here about a specific dashboard, nothing generic, so I would start with:

To visualize the health of the Kyma Telemetry module and it's related pipelines, import manually the file ...

Reviewer 2: Suggestion with language editing - and I argue we can drop the "manually" - the linked instructions don't offer any automatic alternative?

```suggestion
1. To see the health of the Kyma Telemetry module and its related pipelines, import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json) as a Dynatrace dashboard. For details, see [Importing Dashboards](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/dashboards-classic/dashboards/dashboard-json#import-dashboard).
```

Reviewer: Sounds awesome, let's do it

> 2. Add the following attributes to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes:

Reviewer: The metrics for the Telemetry module health are using custom resource attributes, which needs to be added to ...

Reviewer 2: Why passive voice? How about:
```suggestion
2. Add the following custom resource attributes to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes:
```
I'm not sure why we need the first half of the sentence. What value does it add?

Reviewer: I like speaking in passive voice, no other intention here.

Reviewer 2: "Speaking in passive voice is liked by me!" ;)

Speaking in passive voice is absolutely fine ...but let's use active voice in docs.

    ```

2. If your Secret has a different name or namespace, then download the file first and adjust the namespace and name accordingly in the 'dataSources' section of the file.

## Use Dynatrace Dashboards

> You can view logs, traces, and metrics in Dynatrace dashboards:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view metrics in Dynatrace dashboards:
```
Let's not irritate people so that they think this dashboardas here are about logs

- To view the status of the Dynatrace integration with the Kyma Telemetry module, import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json) as a Dynatrace dashboard. For details on how to import a dashboard, see [Importing Dashboards](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/dashboards-classic/dashboards/dashboard-json#import-dashboard).
> [!WARNING]
> Kyma Telemetry resources contain the following custom OpenTelemetry resource attributes:
> - `k8s.resource.name`
> - `k8s.resource.group`
> - `k8s.resource.kind`
> - `k8s.resource.version`
> 
> For the dashboard to function properly, you must [add these attributes to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/ingest-from/opentelemetry/getting-started/metrics/configuration#allow-list).

## Use Dynatrace Alerts

> You can create Dynatrace Alerts based on certain metric events to send alerts to your system of choice. 

Reviewer: That section is generic about how to setup alerting. It should be all about how to setup an alert for the telemetry status, can you add the alert expression please

    ```

2. If your Secret has a different name or namespace, then download the file first and adjust the namespace and name accordingly in the 'dataSources' section of the file.

## Use Dynatrace Dashboards

> You can view metrics in Dynatrace dashboards:

Reviewer 2: Does this sentence really add value? I believe we can drop it - or merge it with the following sentence:

```suggestion
1. To view metrics in Dynatrace dashboards, import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json) as a Dynatrace dashboard. For details, see [Importing Dashboards](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/dashboards-classic/dashboards/dashboard-json#import-dashboard).
```

Also, I believe this and the following instruction could be in a numbered list, like in most step instructions.

- To view the status of the Dynatrace integration with the Kyma Telemetry module, import the file [Telemetry Module Status](./telemetry-resource-metrics.json) as a Dynatrace dashboard. For details on how to import a dashboard, see [Importing Dashboards](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/dashboards-classic/dashboards/dashboard-json#import-dashboard).

> > [!WARNING]

Reviewer 2: Does this have to happen before importing the file as a Dynatrace dashboard, or afterwards? (or doesn't it matter?)

Furthermore, does this have to be a warning? Why not simply another instruction:

```suggestion
2. Add the following attributes to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes:
   - `k8s.resource.name`
   - `k8s.resource.group`
   - `k8s.resource.kind`
   - `k8s.resource.version`

   For details about adding attributes to the allow list, see [Configure resource and scope attributes to be added as dimensions](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/ingest-from/opentelemetry/getting-started/metrics/configuration#allow-list).
```

If this suggestion is acceptable, you can drop lines 272-278.

> Kyma Telemetry resources contain the following custom OpenTelemetry resource attributes:
> - `k8s.resource.name`
> - `k8s.resource.group`
> - `k8s.resource.kind`
> - `k8s.resource.version`
> 
> For the dashboard to function properly, you must [add these attributes to the allow list of OpenTelemetry metrics resource attributes](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/ingest-from/opentelemetry/getting-started/metrics/configuration#allow-list).

## Use Dynatrace Alerts

> You can create Dynatrace Alerts based on certain metric events to send alerts about the Kyma Telemetry module status to your system of choice. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To send alerts about the Kyma Telemetry module status to your preferred backend system, create Dynatrace Alerts based on certain metric events:
```

> 1. **Create a problem alerting profile**  

Reviewer 2: Step instructions don't need bold font.

```suggestion
1. Create a problem alerting profile. 
```

>    Define how and when alerts should trigger. Follow the [Dynatrace guide](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/alerting-profiles#create-an-alerting-profile).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Define how and when alerts should trigger. For details, see [Create an alerting profile](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/alerting-profiles#create-an-alerting-profile).
```

I like specific link titles (they increase the chance that a reader can find the target document even if the link is broken)

> 2. **Set up alert integration with your system of choice**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Set up alert integration with your backend system.
```

   Configure Dynatrace to send problem notifications to your system. For details, see [Problem notifications](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/problem-notifications).

> 3. **Create a [metric event](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/discover-dynatrace/platform/davis-ai/anomaly-detection/set-up-a-customized-anomaly-detector/how-to-set-up/metric-events)**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Create a metric event.
```

>    Define a metric event with a metric selector or a metric key which reflects the event you want to monitor.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Define a metric event with a metric selector or a metric key that reflects the event you want to monitor. For details, see [Metric events](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/discover-dynatrace/platform/davis-ai/anomaly-detection/set-up-a-customized-anomaly-detector/how-to-set-up/metric-events).
```

>  **Example:** Trigger an alert when the Kyma Telemetry module enters a non-ready state:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 For example, trigger an alert when the Kyma Telemetry module enters a non-ready state:
```

   ```text
   kyma.resource.status.state:filter(not(eq("state","Ready")))
   ```

> 4. **Filter for the event in your alerting profile**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Filter for the event in your alerting profile.
```

>    Add a custom [event filter](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/alerting-profiles#event-filters) to target the metric event you just created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   To target the metric event you just created, add a custom event filter. For details, see [event filters](https://docs.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/notifications-and-alerting/alerting-profiles#event-filters).
```

> 5. **Test the integration**  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Test the integration.
```
